How does it make you feel knowing God's support is real and that He's entrusted us to do the work we do?
We know that song. We love that song.
But I'd be able to stop to meditate on the lyrics.
How do we feel?
Because really, it's such a tremendous, amazing privilege that Jehovah has entrusted to his people
the work of kingdom preaching and disciple making.
Now, while the work at Bethel contributes to the preaching work in a very precious and unique way,
we still recognize it's quite special to be able to assist someone in the ministry
and watch them progress to the point of making a dedication and symbolizing that by water baptism.
Our text comments mentions the qualities of gratitude and undeserved kindness.
And these are good qualities because they're qualities that motivate us, that move us to action,
that touch our emotions. Now, why is this emotional investment so important
when it comes to our ministry? Well, think for example of our greatest teacher and preacher
whoever walked the earth and that is Jesus Christ. Turn with me and your Bibles,
please, to Luke chapter 19. And we'll just take a look at one instance of how Jesus demonstrated
this love and concern. Luke chapter 19 verse 41, it says, and when he, that is Jesus,
got nearby, he viewed the city, Jerusalem, and wept over it.
How interesting, Jesus' heart was filled with so much emotion that his eyes brimmed over
with tears when he contemplated the people, their rejection of the message,
the siege that was to follow. Doesn't I show his love for people? And obviously that love
was made evident the entire time that he was here on the earth.
Now, we may not give way to tears every time we go into our territory and engage in the ministry
but certainly we want to imitate Jesus' example because it's so vital that we have and demonstrate
love for people. It reminds me of a conversation I had with a missionary sister some time ago.
And at the time she was reviewing her personal circumstances and she felt that at that time she
could comfortably handle 10 Bible studies. So I asked her how things were going. She said,
well, actually I have 20. She says I was able to get rid of six. She says, but I just can't turn
over these last four. She says there's such a part of my life. I just can't let them go.
I don't sound like a good problem to have, but doesn't it highlight her love for people? She was
emotionally invested. Now, we also have to admit that while preaching is a wonderful work,
actually carrying it out is not always easy to do. Perhaps at times we may feel like the prophet
Jeremiah. You recall when he was commissioned as a prophet, he gave Jehovah a number of reasons
why he shouldn't be selected. He was too shy, too young, wasn't able to speak well. And then once
he got into his assignment and the opposition and the ridicule started, well, let's take note of
his feelings. Turn with me please to Jeremiah in chapter 20. Jeremiah in chapter 20 will begin with
the B part of verse 8. For me, the word of Jehovah has been the cause of insults and jeering all day long.
So I said, I am not going to make mention of him. And I will speak no more in his name.
Have you ever had times where you felt like Jeremiah where we just didn't have the desire
or feel like speaking to others about Jehovah? And maybe it was for similar reasons.
We're shy. We feel nervous. People in the territory are indifferent. Or could it just be that we're
just tired? The energy that we feel we need, we just don't have it. As a normal to feel this way
at times, absolutely. But let's take note of what Jeremiah says next. Let's finish verse 9.
He says, but in my heart, it became like a burning fire shut up in my bones. And I was tired of
holding it in. I could no longer endure it. You notice it was Jeremiah's love for Jehovah, his
zeal for the truth, his strong spirituality. All of these were things that were able to help him
remain invested and be able to overcome any temporary discouragement he might have been feeling
at that time. So what can help us to stay invested to maintain our love for people?
Well, there are many ways, but we'll discuss too. First, Jeremiah's example shows us that there
is never a substitute for study of God's word. Did you notice what was that burning fire shut up
in his bones? Verse 8 tells us it was the word of Jehovah. So it was Jeremiah's appreciation for
the importance of his message that made him responsive to the encouragement he received
when he read God's word. And it works the same for us as well. Study of God's word helps to
reinforce our love for Jehovah. It's a constant reminder that we're living in the last days,
that we're deep in the time of the end, and we need to do all that we can to find those who are
rightly disposed for everlasting life. Yes, it is natural. We are going to experience discouragement
from time to time. But when we pray to Jehovah for help, you see, if his word is in our hearts,
then Jehovah can freely impart his Holy Spirit to us. He can give us what we need to be
boldly preachers of the good news and be productive in our ministry.
Now, the second thing that can help us is by applying the suggestions that are given to us by
the slave to help us improve our ministry. Now, perhaps in the past, preaching may have been
difficult, maybe because of just pressure we put upon ourselves. Perhaps we may have felt that
we had to have the perfect presentation, or we had to place a certain amount of literature.
But how loving it is that we see that with the various adjustments that have been made in our
ministry, well, hopefully some of that anxiety has been lifted, because now we know our focus is on
starting conversations. And with the help of prayer and God's spirit, we can see how that just
naturally progresses into a witness. We just think back for a moment to the example of Jesus. We
can only imagine how many preaching opportunities Jesus must have had just from starting conversations.
Of course, the one we're most familiar with to John chapter four, the Samaritan woman at the
well, not only was that a great witness, but just think about all of those who became believers
afterward. And all of that started simply from Jesus starting a conversation asking for water.
We may not always have as many opportunities as Bethel to engage in the house to house work as we
would like, but certainly as we travel, as we move about, this can present greater opportunities
to start conversations. In last month's meeting workbook, there was an article
starting conversations that can lead to a witness. And that article just provided many excellent
practical suggestions that we can implement. So if we follow these suggestions, well,
this is a nice way that we can show and demonstrate our gratitude. We're making the best
use of our time to start a witness. So as we mentioned, there are many ways that we can show our
gratitude, but certainly these two, our study of God's Word, applying the suggestions to improve
our ministry, our two ways that we can certainly implement. So an implementation of Jesus, Jeremiah,
many other faithful witnesses of Jehovah, may we do what we can to show that we are invested,
that we show our love for God, our love for people, as we appreciatively carry out our commission
to preach the good news.